In this lesson, we'll go over the components of Apache Spark
and focus on the ones that we'll be using throughout the course.
Many compare Hadoop and Spark,
but Spark is more comparable to the MapReduce algorithm of Hadoop ecosystem.
Apache Spark is a powerful alternative to
Hadoop MapReduce with several rich functionalities like machine learning,
real time stream processing, and graph computations.
Apache Spark is gaining popularity and is emerging as
the standard execution engine in Hadoop because of it's extensible and flexible APIs,
high-performance, ease of use,
and increased developer productivity.
Mainly, we'd like to focus on Spark Core, SQL,
and streaming components, and explore commonly used APIs,
and how those really work behind.
We'll also look at the core building blocks for Spark,
which are RDDs, DataFrame,
and data set, and how the functions for these collections work.